
Video Automatic Speech Recognition information (given in chronological order of the video):  Tonight, protests across Canada as the federal carbon tax goes up. People can't afford to eat, they can not pay. It ain't just on tax on gas, it's on everything. From prices to rebates, what's changed, why, and a new call now for an emergency meeting. Gaza's largest hospital now in ruins after a weeks-long Israeli raid.
  And what do years in the ring do to a brain? I'm scared they're going to find a braintumor. Or they are going find... a bleed. Inside the groundbreaking study as a Canadian boxer tries to figure out if it's time to quit before it is too late. From CBC News, this is The National with Chief Correspondent Adrian Arsenault. Thanks for joining us. There is no denying the anger of some Canadians to the latest hike in federal carbon tax.
  Still, in much of the country, that hike is now in effect along with a bigger rebate meant to offset the costs. The change sparked protests right across the county. Frustration on full display after weeks of calls for the Liberals to cancel the increase. Newfoundland and Labrador's premier is calling for an emergency meeting among leaders. Nicholas again with the Prime Minister's response and the worries pushing many to the protest lines.
  Everything on a truck, everything is going up. For some Canadians struggling with the high cost of living, the federal carbon tax feels like another hit. People can't afford to eat. They can not pay. It ain't just on tax on gas, it's on everything. More than a dozen protests against the tax took place all across the country, including on busy highways on the day the carbon and the the carban rebates increased in most provinces.
  The Northwest Territories, B.C. and Quebec are all exempt. But everywhere else, it means the average household could spend an extra $65 a year on natural gas and an an exta $3.3 per litre on gasoline. We are not seeing any increase in our salaries or our pay. So when this happens, It really does affect a lot of us.
  will receive to offset the tax. Depending on where they live, families of four will get between $200 and $400 four times a year. About 80% of Canadians are going to get back more than they pay. But the premiers of seven provinces without their own carbon reduction plans are pushing back. Newfoundland and Labrador's Andrew Furey is now asking the Prime Minister for an emergency meeting of leaders to discuss alternatives to the
  try to complain about it and make political hay out of this. Also leading the charge against the carbon pricing policy, the leader of the opposition. This is not just a tax at the pump. It's a attacks on your heat, attacks your food. But it is a attack that will cost the majority of families in every single province more than they get back. The message for many protesters is clear. They're worried about the future.
  Andrew Furey is calling for a collaborative approach to find solutions. The Prime Minister has not said whether he'll answer his call for an emergency meeting. Nicola Sagan, CBC News, Halifax. Now the carbon tax isn't the only thing going up.
  and backbench MPs will now earn $203,000. The Prime Minister is promising there will be $1 billion in the upcoming federal budget to create a national school food program to feed kids. Money that could go to provinces and territories in time for the next school year. But as Olivia Stefanovic shows us that target might be hard to meet.
  Even at the playground, the cost of groceries is on Celeste Laroque's mind. I do have anxieties over it because some days I wonder how am I putting food on our table already right now. A question many parents are asking and one the Prime Minister says his government will address. When kids eat better, they do better in school. Justin Trudeau is promising a national school food program to help the nearly one in four Canadian children
  don't have enough to eat. We're putting a billion dollars forward to be sent out to provinces and territories to add 400,000 more kids across the country who will have fuller bellies in class. Our focus now is making sure the federal government steps up. The school food program isn't part of the NDP's agreement to support the Liberals. But it is something you Democrats advocated for.
  food program in schools. The Conservatives meanwhile recently voted against a private members bill to create such a program. Mr. Cooper. And when asked if he supports this plan, opposition leader Pierre Poliev did insane. I find it ironic that he's promising a federal food bureaucracy in Ottawa the same day as he raises taxes on food. His carbon tax on the truck, the farmer who
  program is going to work? Well this program will be part of the federal budget later this month. The commitment includes one billion dollars over five years and the Federal Government is hoping to get this money flowing to the provinces and territories for the start of next school year. But they'll need to negotiate and coordinate all of this with those governments so this could take more time than the government would like. I bet. All right, Olivia Stefanovich in Ottawa.
  Hamas officials say an Israeli airstrike killed four international aid workers and a Palestinian driver. The bodies were taken to a hospital in central Gaza where staff showed the British, Australian and Polish passports of three of the dead. They were with the World Central Kitchen. A charity had arrived with a shipment of aid by sea earlier today. That sea corridor approved and monitored by Israeli authorities. Israel's military says it is investigating the incident.
  And that incident comes just hours after the world's first full glimpse of Gaza's largest hospital now in ruins. Israeli troops have withdrawn claiming a big victory against Hamas after a two-week battle. But as Katie Simpson shows us little remains tonight of the critical medical facility.
  Al Shifa was the largest medical facility in Gaza. Most of it now rendered unusable. Satellite images show what the area looked like before and this is what it looks like now. After Israeli forces raided the complex for two weeks in search of Hamas militants. Witnesses say they saw patients die from a lack of medical care. Every day was miserable says this man.
  This man who says he was a patient at the hospital. There was no food and there was not treatment. He says the lack of medicine made his pain seem a million times worse. While this man, who also says that he's a patients, says was dragged by Israeli forces and kicked as he questioned about what he did for work. Israeli officials say hundreds of militants were either detained or killed in the operation that is being described as a major success.
  Special Forces operation to clear the hospital of terrorists will be studied as the gold standard for urban warfare. Israel is pushing ahead with its military operations in Gaza and is now being accused of escalating tensions with Iran. An airstrike on an Iranian government building in Syria killed several high-ranking Iranian military leaders including multiple generals. Ron blames Israel.
  Such crimes will not remain without a response, said Iran's ambassador to Syria through a translator. Growing tensions abroad come as Israeli leaders face intensifying pressure at home. Tens of thousands of anti-government protesters gathered in Jerusalem for a second night. This government is doing horrendous things in Gaza, not in our name. And we want the government to take responsibility and resign. Israel's Prime Minister has largely decided
  and is backing a plan that will silence dissent. Lawmakers passed a bill to temporarily shut down Al Jazeera's TV broadcasts in Israel, which have been critical of the war, though they say it's a Hamas-supporting security threat. Washington is waiting for confirmation, but is alarmed. A move like this is concerning. We believe in the freedom of press. It is critical. And Katie, I gather senior officials in Washington met virtually with their Israeli counterparts today. Yeah, we understand that.
  the U.S. expressed concern about Israel's plan to target Hamas militants in Rafah, where hundreds of thousands of displaced Palestinians have been seeking shelter. Israel says it will take American concerns into account as it develops its plan. The U S sends billions of dollars worth of military aid to Israel and despite its specific concerns about its military operations, it does not appear that any of that U s support is in question at this time. Adrian. All right, Katie Simpson reporting in Washington.
  Thank you.
  is definitely affecting businesses so the U.S. Small Business Administration is organizing loans to help out. The bridge went down a week ago after a cargo ship lost power and ran into it. President Joe Biden is expected to see that damage firsthand in a visit on Friday. And you are looking at FBI headquarters in Atlanta earlier today after this car rammed the front gate. Police say the driver is in custody.
  officials otherwise provided very little information. The Canadian government says it is ramping up efforts to get more Canadians and their families out of Haiti. Starting Wednesday, Canadian citizens, permanent residents and immediate family members will be eligible for an airlift. Last week, Canada started airlifting people with a valid Canadian passport. Since then, more than 150 were taken from Haiti to the Dominican Republic. It's been three weeks since Haiti's Prime Minister
  after gangs seized control of the capital. Russia is rejecting allegations it is to blame for a mysterious illness reported by dozens of American and Canadian officials. As Ilhamusa tells us, that denial comes after a new international investigation into what's been called the Havana syndrome.
  diplomats. It was like a dentist drilling on steroids. That feeling when it gets too close to your eardrum, it's like that, you know, times 10. Now an international joint investigation that aired on 60 Minutes alleges they may have been targeted by a secretive Russian intelligence unit. Its next generation of weaponry and unfortunately it has been refined on some of us and we're the test subjects.
  The first case of so-called Havana syndrome was believed to have happened in that city in 2016. Although this new report suggests there were instances in Germany two years earlier. The injured describe experiencing dizziness, headaches and vision problems and they include White House staff, CIA officers, FBI agents, military officers and their families. Consistently there was a Russia nexus. There was some angle where they had worked against Russia, focused on
  on Russia and done extremely well. More than a dozen Canadian diplomats and their family members have also reported experiencing similar symptoms after placements in Cuba and some are now suing the federal government. These diplomates are serving Canada in some of the most dangerous places in the world. And if we're not going to step up and protect them and
  foreign adversary is responsible. The White House maintains that it supports that finding. We trust our intelligence community, right? The Kremlin has dismissed the report, calling the allegation nothing but unfounded accusations. Ithil Moosa, CBC News, Toronto. Nunavut is celebrating a milestone anniversary, 25 years since it officially became a territory.
  is being marked tonight by a community celebration including lots of music and food and by visit from Governor General Mary Simon. On April 1st, 1999 Nunavut separated from the Northwest Territories ushering in a new era after years of negotiations. Rising competition and changing demographics are forcing fast food businesses to work even harder to come up with the next big menu item.
  We take you inside the test kitchen of a major fast food chain. Next. Plus, from inside of the ring to inside brain of Canadian boxer. I'm hoping that there hasn't been a decline. Katie Nicholson brings us rare access to a study looking for the early signs of damage. And later, cherry blossoms light up the night in full colour.
  A Vancouver park illuminates and inspires. We're back with more. An Ontario man has now been recognized as the world's oldest kidney transplant recipient. Walter Toro is 88.
  very tough kitchen environments. Time consuming work but experts say there's more of it happening. Many test kitchens closed during the pandemic and restaurants trimmed their menus to save money. But these days that wave of innovation is flooding back into the market right now. So certainly busier now than it has been in five years. For its part A&W has more than 70 new products in the works though only a few will make their way to an actual menu. Paula Duhoczek, CBC News, Vancouver.
  Scientists are using new techniques to get vital information about whales and other marine life off the coast of BC. Essentially it's like CSI, CSi in the ocean. How it promises to track creatures without harming them. Plus, we'll take you from the ring to the clinic and a study looking for early signs of devastating head trauma. When people are actively exposed to head impacts it is changing the brain. Have a Canadian boxer's brain is holding up.
  and how the research could help others. And viewing the upcoming solar eclipse without damaging your eyes. It can tend to override people's natural safety inclination. What you need to know to stay safe. The National breaks down the story shaping our world, next.
  It's not clear whether the calf has eaten anything since the death of its mother nine days ago. As Belle Puri shows us, some rescuers are turning to tech to try to help. The young whale circles and circles again. It has been more than a week since its Mother died in this lagoon and the Calf can't seem to escape. Well it is nature but the community is really affected by it spiritually I think.
  The BC-based whale research group says its artificial intelligence technology is already helping to find those relatives. It's been asking people to submit photos of orcas they see in the area and using AI to match those photos to an existing database of Orcas. After we made this technology available to operators working off the west coast of Vancouver Island yesterday, we immediately received a data submission from a new user of the Cahuisa
  The calf will have to swim over a sandbar and under a causeway. The tides are expected to be more favourable this week. Belpuri, CBC News, Vancouver. Now on the other side of Vancouver Island scientists are using emerging research to learn more about killer whales. It's less invasive and it relies on DNA collected through seawater. Georgie Smyth shows us how it works. There's so much life passing through these waters.
  and as scientists are finding out, even more to learn from what is left behind. That jug of seawater contains environmental DNA or eDNA scooped up behind a diving whale.
  The sample is filtered on the boat and later sent for genetic testing. It's the first time eDNA has been used to study whales here. Scientists know some of BC's killer whales are already under stress from lack of food, ship traffic and climate change. Traditional research would also
  scoop and when to make it more precise. Knowing that what we're doing can eventually lead to better conservation efforts for the species and whatever we can do to give back to them brings myself a lot of gratification and really makes me love the work that we are doing knowing that it can be used to be positive impact for these animals. Work that is bridging the knowledge gap without getting too close. Georgie Smyth, CBC News, Hornby Island.
  Now it's time to go deeper into the story shaping our world. This is The Breakdown.
  as a top contender. In part, this story breaks down how the brains of female athletes haven't been studied that much. Katie Nicholson got extraordinary access as Hafner went for her annual medical check-in, then anxiously awaited the verdict.
  After years of training, sparring and fights, Canadian boxer Claire Hefner is about to find out what kind of a toll being in the ring has taken on her brain health. She's part of the groundbreaking study of 900 living athletes looking at the long-term effects of head trauma.
  Oh, I'm properly nervous. Yeah. What are you hoping for today? I am hoping that there hasn't been a decline in anything. I hoping a really good, clean brain scan. Today we are doing the verbal memory test. We are going the finger tapping test, symbol decoding test and we will be doing a strew test Remind me the strop test? It's the one with all the colors. Yes. These are hard, just so you know.
  and it can cause blindness so we don't want people to be getting injured trying to enjoy this really cool event. And on April the 8th, CBC News will have a full day of special coverage of the total solar eclipse that starts bright and early. Heather Hiscox will be in Niagara Falls hosting Morning Live from 6 to 10 a.m. Eastern on Cbc News Network.
  on a devastating scale. Here's a preview. In pockets of northern Brazil, fire is sucking the life out of the rainforest. When Canada burned and everybody, oh no, I can't breathe. What we face in the Amazon every year and it's exactly or even more. Dolphins dying in abnormally warm water. And that vital waterway used by tens of thousands of people sunk too low.
  Massive death of fisheries because how warm the water was. Something I've never seen in my life. A devastating combination. Elevated heat, historic drought and deforestation pushing parts of the Amazon towards a tipping point. We are losing the amazon rainforest. You can watch for that Tuesday on The National.
  You can watch anywhere, anytime on the free CBC News app and subscribe to the National's YouTube channel. I'm Adrienne Arsenault. Take care.
  you

Video OCR information (given in chronological order of the video): CBCNEWS; ; NO; TRUDEAU; Protests held across Canada as federal carbon tax increases; CARBO; ; or climate; he lowest; THE PREMIER; ndustry; And we; GOVERNMENT OF; ibility; NEWFOUNDLAND ANDLABRADOR; home 0il; Andrew Furey; March 30 . 2024; are going; ig balance; for the; carbon; KI (1 `; estments; _emergency meeting of leaders__; time, t0; ringS; yet this; ronment; ative; ; Ottawa announces plan for national school food program; ; TAX; ABOLIR LA; GO; TAXE; AYE THEITAX; Pierre Poilievre; Leader of the Official Opposition; Nanaimo, B.C_; ; Breaking; International aid workers reportedly killed in Gaza strike; ; Fast food chains compete to dream up the next big menu item; ; Jared Towers; Cetology executive director; Alert Bay, B.C_; AI technology used in race to save orphaned orca; Bay; ; Researchers turn to non-invasive; technique to study B.c  whales; ; Gary Sutton; technique to study B.C. whales; ; One more fight? Boxer lends brain to trauma research; ; F; ; Coming soon; Amazon rainforest pushed to a tipping; point; 